{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Calibri;}}
\fs24
\b ServiceDesk AI Lite - Project Synopsis (Step-by-Step)\b0\par
\par
\b Project Path:\b0  /Users/alokpadlia/Desktop/Alok Padlia_2026 Learning/SimplyLearnPython/Project\par
\b Date:\b0  April 2026\par
\par
\b 1) Initial Environment Setup\par\b0
- Checked directory commands and project folder contents.\par
- Verified base project files and terminal behavior.\par
- Created Python virtual environment using: python -m venv venv\par
- Activated virtual environment and validated pip.\par
- Upgraded pip to latest available version in venv.\par
- Installed Django and verified installed version.\par
- Confirmed git availability on macOS.\par
\par
\b 2) Django Project Initialization\par\b0
- Created initial Django project and started development server.\par
- Observed unapplied migration warning.\par
- Applied migrations for built-in Django apps (admin, auth, contenttypes, sessions).\par
- Re-ran server and confirmed clean startup.\par
\par
\b 3) Project Rename and Refactor\par\b0
- Renamed Django project package from myproject to ServiceDeskAI.\par
- Updated all references in manage.py, asgi.py, wsgi.py, settings.py, and urls.py.\par
- Verified no stale project-name references remained.\par
\par
\b 4) Directory Structure Work\par\b0
- Verified requested folder availability.\par
- Manually created missing folders:\par
  - ServiceDeskAI/tickets/templates/\par
  - ServiceDeskAI/tickets/templates/tickets/\par
  - ServiceDeskAI/scripts/\par
  - ServiceDeskAI/logs/\par
- Created additional requested files/folders under ServiceDeskAI for alignment with target layout.\par
\par
\b 5) Core Django App Files Added\par\b0
- Created and/or updated app files in ServiceDeskAI/tickets:\par
  - apps.py (TicketsConfig)\par
  - models.py (Ticket model with category, priority, status, analysis fields)\par
  - forms.py (TicketForm)\par
  - admin.py (Ticket admin registration and admin display config)\par
  - service.py (background analysis logic and helper functions)\par
  - analytics.py (ticket metrics and summary generation)\par
  - view.py (ticket create/list/detail and analytics views)\par
  - views.py shim added for compatibility with Django conventions.\par
  - urls.py (app routing)\par
  - tests.py (basic model creation test)\par
\par
\b 6) Templates Added\par\b0
- Created HTML templates under ServiceDeskAI/tickets/templates/tickets:\par
  - base.html\par
  - ticket_form.html\par
  - ticket_list.html\par
  - ticket_detail.html\par
  - analytics.html\par
\par
\b 7) Scripts Added\par\b0
- Added Windows script:\par
  - ServiceDeskAI/scripts/run_windows.bat\par
- Added macOS script and made executable:\par
  - ServiceDeskAI/scripts/run_mac.sh\par
\par
\b 8) Runtime Fixes and Validation\par\b0
- Fixed import mismatch from services vs service in ticket views.\par
- Fixed Django app path/module configuration issues:\par
  - INSTALLED_APPS updated to ServiceDeskAI.tickets\par
  - ROOT_URLCONF and WSGI_APPLICATION corrected to ServiceDeskAI namespace\par
  - TicketsConfig.name corrected to ServiceDeskAI.tickets\par
  - Project URL include updated to ServiceDeskAI.tickets.urls\par
- Addressed startup failure caused by pandas import by adding safe fallback in analytics.py.\par
- Installed pandas dependency.\par
- Successfully ran:\par
  - python3 manage.py makemigrations\par
  - python3 manage.py migrate\par
- Started Django runserver successfully.\par
- createsuperuser noted as skipped in non-interactive tool session; to be run manually in terminal.\par
\par
\b 9) Data Verification\par\b0
- Checked ticket count and confirmed initially zero records.\par
- Inserted a sample ticket via Django shell.\par
- Confirmed ticket creation (ID: 1).\par
\par
\b 10) Current Status\par\b0
- Project scaffolding, app code, templates, routing, and migrations are in place.\par
- Development server can run.\par
- Ticket list/detail/analytics pages are connected.\par
- One sample ticket exists for immediate UI verification.\par
\par
\b 11) Recommended Next Steps\par\b0
1. Run createsuperuser manually:\par
   python3 manage.py createsuperuser\par
2. Start server:\par
   python3 manage.py runserver\par
3. Validate URLs in browser:\par
   - /tickets/\par
   - /tickets/create/\par
   - /tickets/analytics/\par
   - /admin/\par
4. Add more tests for forms, services, and views.\par
\par
\b End of Synopsis\b0\par
}
